all right so here's a video update on
the 1975 Johnson Evinrude 40 horsepower
so in my last video I talked about
different methods I was going to try to
get this drive shaft out and I got a
couple really good suggestions online
one of them and this is something I
found a lot was people said put lots of
penetrating oil down there to get down
to the bottom of the shaft so one of the
things that I did I'd spent about a week
every day I shot some more down there
and this is what I came up with today I
got one of these shaft collars that they
didn't have them in stock at the big box
hardware stores so I was able to find
one that tractor supply and I put this
on the first set screw that was inside
of this though busted all the pieces
what I did is I just drilled a little
bit of a inset for the set screw to grab
on to but the original set screw on this
busted two pieces so I found in the
heavier Duty your screw to put in there
for a set screw and I began popping on
this and lo and behold after about a
week of penetrant soaking in there with
the engine upside down so as you can see
you know I've got it kind of suspended
on the come along just to keep it
upright and I had this thing covered up
when we had ring but every day I blasted
some more penetrance in it
got the collar on there and I made this
makeshift slide hammer conventional
slide hammer would not work because
there's really nothing to attach it to
unless you get a pretty expensive set so
I made this made this out of a piece of
galvanized pipe three-quarter inch and I
threaded on the collar to give it kind
of a ramming section there at the front
of it I also made it short enough if it
was too long it would kind of tend to
hang up and stick down there in the
bottom so made it short enough to give
me enough striking distance and
basically did a lot of series of these
types of taps against the collar and lo
and behold
this shaft came out and boy you can
really tell that that thing was really
STIs din there so kudos to you guys for
suggesting you know the good penetrance
like pv blaster and and just sticking
with it and making sure I don't give up
so thanks guys and now I can work on
rebuilding the lower assembly